# Welcome
SwiftDate is the perfect solution to play with Dates, Times and TimeZones in Swift. It'a a lightweight all-in-one solution; you may thing SwiftDate as the `Moment.js` for Swift.

# Absolute Date
Cocoa and CocoaTouch uses `Date` object as central class to manage date and time in macOS, iOS, tvOS and watchOS. This object encapsulates a moment in time that is internally stored as the number of seconds since `Jan 1, 2011 at 00:00 UTC`. This is what we call Universal Time because it represent the same moment everywhere around the world.

You can see absolute time as the moment that someone in the USA has a telephone conversation with someone in Dubai; both have that conversation at the same moment (the absolute time) but the local time will be different due to time zones, different calendars, alphabets or notation methods.

If you also need to work with time zone, calendar and locales you need to combine `Date` with three other objects: `TimeZone`, `Calendar` and `Locale`. SwiftDate main focus is to provide a set of functions and constructors which allows to manage all of these object easily and without pain.

#  `Date` vs `DateInRegion` & `Region`
Fundamentally there are two ways to represent a DateTime in SwiftDate: using plain `Date` object to represent an universal time interval, or via `DateInRegion` to represent the same interval in a specified world region (by combining it with particular timezone, locale and calendar attribute).
All the functions exposed by the library are equally available both for `Date` and `DateInRegion`.

While you may choose to still work with `Date` (or mix and match both), in order to avoid struggling our suggestion is to replace `Date` with `DateInRegion` in your code.

`DateInRegion` combines and represent an absolute `Date` in a particular geographic region defined by a `Region`.
Each `Region` has three important attributes:

- A **TimeZone**: defines in which geographic region the date is expressed in. Time zone objects represent geopolitical regions. Consequently, these objects have names for these regions. Time zone objects also represent a temporal offset, either plus or minus, from Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) and an abbreviation (such as PST for Pacific Standard Time).
- A **Calendar**: encapsulate information about systems of reckoning time in which the beginning, length, and divisions of a year are defined. They provide information about the calendar and support for calendrical computations such as determining the range of a given calendrical unit and adding units to a given absolute time.
- A **Locale**: encapsulate information about linguistic, cultural, and technological conventions and standards. Examples of information encapsulated by a locale include the symbol used for the decimal separator in numbers and the way dates are formatted.

Combining a `Date` in a `Region` you can create a `DateInRegion` instance.
Let's make an example by representing current date time (`Date()`) in New York.

```swift
let regionNY = Region(tz: TimeZoneName.americaNewYork, cal: CalendarName.gregorian, loc: LocaleName.englishUnitedStates)
let nowInNY = DateInRegion(absoluteDate: Date(), in: regionNY)
```

Since now querying and making operations with `nowInNY` includes everything related to the region itself. You can still get the absolute datetime by using `absoluteDate` property.

# Default Region
By default all operations exposed by SwiftDate for `Date` instances (and others where optional region parameter is omitted) uses what we call `Default Region`.
`Default Region` is a special region which is initially set to the currently local region (`Region.Local()`) where:
- `timezone` is set to the current's device timezone
- `calendar` is set to the current's device calendar
- `locale` is set to the current's device locale

You can change the default region using:

```swift
let dateFormat = "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm"
let current_default = Date.defaultRegion

// Print date in current local device region
print(now.string(format: .custom(dateFormat))) // 2017-04-09 19:32
// Change the default region
Date.setDefaultRegion(regionNY)
// Print it again; now the date will be expressed in another region
print(now.string(format: .custom(dateFormat))) // 2017-04-09 13:32
```

Did you noticed? Last printed date is adjusted to the new default region, New York.
The best place to set your default region is the AppDelegate of your app:

```swift
func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplicationLaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {
  // Define a Region in Rome/Italy and set it as default region
  // Our Region also uses Gregorian Calendar and Italy Locale
  let romeRegion = Region(tz: TimeZoneName.europeRome, cal: CalendarName.gregorian, loc: LocaleName.italianItaly)
  Date.setDefaultRegion(romeRegion)
  // Since now each Date function works with this region instead of UTC		
  return true
}
```
 