Documentation/5.Date_Formatting.md, before:

![](./SwiftDate.png)

<a name="index"/>

- [**Index**: Table Of Contents](#Index.md)
- [**Prev Chapter**: Parsing Dates](#Parsing_Dates.md)
- [**Next Chapter**: Time Interval Formatting](#6.TimeInterval_Formatting.md)

## Date Formatting
Formatting dates and transforms to string representation is really easy with SwiftDate. All the major formats are supported and are really easy to configure.

- [5.0 - Format Custom Style](5.Date_Formatting.md#customformatted)
- [5.1 - ISO8601 Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#isoformatted)
- [5.2 - .NET Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#dotnet)
- [5.3 - RSS/AltRSS Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#rss)
- [5.4 - SQL Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#sql)
- [5.5 - Relative/Colloquial Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#colloquial)

<a name="customformatted"/>

## 5.0 - Format Custom Style
If you need to format a `Date` or `DateInRegion` in a String using a custom format you need to use `toFormat(_:locale:)` function.

`func toFormat(_ format: String, locale: LocaleConvertible?) -> String`

it takes two arguments:

- `format | String`: the format of the string. It's defined by the Unicode DateTime format specs you [can found here](7.Format_UnicodeTable.md).
- `locale | LocaleConvertible?`: Set a non nil value to force the formatter to use a different locale than the one assigned to the date itself (from date's `region.locale` property). Leave it `nil` to use the one assigned by the region itself (or, for plain `Date` instances the one set as `SwiftDate.defaultRegion`).

Example:

```swift
let rome = Region(calendar: Calendars.gregorian, zone: Zones.europeRome, locale: Locales.italian)
let date = DateInRegion(year: 2015, month: 1, day: 15, hour: 20, minute: 00, second: 5, nanosecond: 0, region: rome)

// Even if date's locale is set to `italian` we can still
// print in a different language by passing a non nil locale
// to the function.
let formattedString = date.toFormat("MMM dd yyyy", locale: Locales.english) // "Jan 15 2015"
```
[^ Top](#index)

<a name="isoformatted"/>

## 5.1 - ISO8601 Formatted String
SwiftDate allows you to print date instances using a configurable ISO8601 formatter which is also compatible with older versions of iOS where Apple's own class is not available.

To use the ISO formatter call `.toISO()` function

`func toISO(_ options: ISOFormatter.Options?) -> String`

takes one optional argument:

- `options | ISOFormatter.Options`: allows to customize the format of the output string by defining which kind of date must be into the final string (if you omit it `withInternetDateTime` is used).

`ISOFormatter.Options` defines an `OptionSet` with the following values:

- `withYear`: The date representation includes the year. The format for year is inferred based on the other specified options. If `withWeekOfYear` is specified, `YYYY` is used. Otherwise, `yyyy` is used.
- `withMonth`: The date representation includes the month. The format for month is `MM`.
- `withWeekOfYear`: The date representation includes the week of the year. The format for week of year is `ww`, including the `W` prefix.
- `withDay`:  The date representation includes the day. The format for day is inferred based on provided options: If `withMonth` is specified, `dd` is used. If `withWeekOfYear` is specified, `ee` is used. Otherwise, `DDD` is used.
- `withTime`: The date representation includes the time. The format for time is `HH:mm:ss`.
- `withTimeZone`: The date representation includes the timezone. The format for timezone is `ZZZZZ`.
- `withSpaceBetweenDateAndTime`: The date representation uses a space (` `) instead of `T` between the date and time.
- `withDashSeparatorInDate`: The date representation uses the dash separator (`-`) in the date.
- `withFullDate`: The date representation uses the colon separator (`:`) in the time.
- `withFullTime`: The date representation includes the hour, minute, and second.
- `withInternetDateTime`: The format used for internet date times, according to the RFC 3339 standard. Equivalent to specifying `withFullDate`, `withFullTime`, `withDashSeparatorInDate`,
 `withColonSeparatorInTime`, and `withColonSeparatorInTimeZone`.
- `withInternetDateTimeExtended`: The format used for internet date times; it's similar to `.withInternetDateTime` but include milliseconds (`yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSZZZZZ`).
- `withoutTZSeparators`: Print timezone of the date without time separator (`+0200` instead of `+02:00`). You can combine it with the following other options: `withInternetDateTimeExtended`, `withInternetDateTime` and when `withTimeZone == false && withTimeZone == true`

Examples:

```swift
let regionRome = Region(calendar: Calendars.gregorian, zone: Zones.europeRome, locale: Locales.italian)
let date = DateInRegion("2017-07-22 00:00:00", format: "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss", region: regionRome)!

// ISO Formatting
let _ = date.toISO() // "2017-07-22T00:00:00+02:00"
let _ = date.toISO([.withFullDate]) // "2017-07-22"
let _ = date.toISO([.withFullDate, .withFullTime, .withDashSeparatorInDate, .withSpaceBetweenDateAndTime]) // "2017-07-22 00:00:00+02:00"
```
[^ Top](#index)

<a name="dotnet"/>

## 5.2 - .NET Formatted String
CSOM DateTime (aka .NET DateTime) is a format defined by Microsoft as the number of 100-nanosecond intervals that have elapsed since 12:00 A.M., January 1, 0001 ([learn more on MSDN documentation page](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd948679)).

Use the `.toDotNET()` function to create a string from a date instance.

`func toDotNET() -> String`

```swift
let date = "2017-06-20T14:49:19+02:00".toISODate()!
let dotNetString = date.toDotNET() // "/Date(1497962959000+0200)/"
```

[^ Top](#index)

<a name="rss"/>

## 5.3 - RSS/AltRSS Formatted String
RSS and AltRSS formatted string can be generated from an instance of `Date` or `DateInRegion` using the `.toRSS()` function.

`func toRSS(alt: Bool) -> String`

takes only one argument:

- `alt | Bool`: true to print the AltRSS variant, false to print the default RSS formatted string.

Examples:

```swift
let date = ... // 2017-06-20T14:49:19+02:00
let rssString = date.toRSS(alt: false) // "Tue, 20 Jun 2017 14:49:19 +0200"
let altRSSString = date.toRSS(alt: true) // "20 Jun 2017 14:49:19 +0200"
```

[^ Top](#index)

<a name="sql"/>

## 5.4 - SQL Formatted String
To print a SQL formatted string from a date instance you need to use the `.toSQL()` function.

`func toSQL() -> String`

Examples:

```swift
let date = ... // 2015-11-19T22:20:40+01:00
let sqlString = date.toSQL() // "2015-11-19T22:20:40.000+01"
```

[^ Top](#index)

<a name="colloquial"/>

## 5.5 - Relative/Colloquial Formatted String
Colloquial format allows you to produce a human friendly string as result of the difference between a date and a a reference date (typically now).
Examples of colloquial formatted strings are `3 mins ago`, `2 days ago` or `just now`.

SwiftDate supports over 140+ languages to produce colloquial formatted strings; the entire engine behind the library is fully customizable so, if you need, you can override default strings and produce your own variants.

To print a colloquial variant of a string just call `.toRelative()` function from a `Date` or `DateInRegion` instance.

`func toRelative(since: DateInRegion?, style: RelativeFormatter.Style?, locale: LocaleConvertible?) -> String`

It takes three arguments:

- `since | DateInRegion?`: reference date, if you omit it current date is set as reference date.
- `style | RelativeFormatter.Style?`: the style used to print the formatted value. There are 3 styles: `RelativeFormatter.defaultStyle()`, `RelativeFormatter.timeStyle()` and `RelativeFormstter.twitterStyle()`.
- `locale | LocaleConvertible?`: pass non nil value to override the receiver region's `locale` and print the representation using passed locale.

Examples:

```swift
let ago5Mins = DateInRegion() - 5.minutes
let _ = ago5Mins.toRelative(style: RelativeFormatter.defaultStyle(), locale: Locales.italian) // "5 minuti fa"

let justNow2 = DateInRegion() - 2.hours
let _ = justNow2.toRelative(style: RelativeFormatter.twitterStyle(), locale: Locales.italian) // "2h fa"

let justNow = DateInRegion() - 10.seconds
let _ = justNow.toRelative(style: RelativeFormatter.twitterStyle(), locale: Locales.italian) // "ora"
```

You can fully customize the language and results.
See the guide ["Customize Colloquial Formatter"](Customize_ColloquialFormatter.md).

[^ Top](#index)

[**Next Chapter**: Time Interval Formatting](#6.TimeInterval_Formatting.md)

Commit message:

new #753: Added documentation for dateTimeMixed formatter option

Documentation/5.Date_Formatting.md, after:

![](./SwiftDate.png)

<a name="index"/>

- [**Index**: Table Of Contents](#Index.md)
- [**Prev Chapter**: Parsing Dates](#Parsing_Dates.md)
- [**Next Chapter**: Time Interval Formatting](#6.TimeInterval_Formatting.md)

## Date Formatting
Formatting dates and transforms to string representation is really easy with SwiftDate. All the major formats are supported and are really easy to configure.

- [5.0 - Format Custom Style](5.Date_Formatting.md#customformatted)
- [5.1 - ISO8601 Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#isoformatted)
- [5.2 - .NET Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#dotnet)
- [5.3 - RSS/AltRSS Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#rss)
- [5.4 - SQL Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#sql)
- [5.5 - Relative/Colloquial Formatted String](5.Date_Formatting.md#colloquial)
- [5.6 - Mixed Date/Time Style](5.Date_Formatting.md#mixeddatetime)

<a name="customformatted"/>

## 5.0 - Format Custom Style
If you need to format a `Date` or `DateInRegion` in a String using a custom format you need to use `toFormat(_:locale:)` function.

`func toFormat(_ format: String, locale: LocaleConvertible?) -> String`

it takes two arguments:

- `format | String`: the format of the string. It's defined by the Unicode DateTime format specs you [can found here](7.Format_UnicodeTable.md).
- `locale | LocaleConvertible?`: Set a non nil value to force the formatter to use a different locale than the one assigned to the date itself (from date's `region.locale` property). Leave it `nil` to use the one assigned by the region itself (or, for plain `Date` instances the one set as `SwiftDate.defaultRegion`).

Example:

```swift
let rome = Region(calendar: Calendars.gregorian, zone: Zones.europeRome, locale: Locales.italian)
let date = DateInRegion(year: 2015, month: 1, day: 15, hour: 20, minute: 00, second: 5, nanosecond: 0, region: rome)

// Even if date's locale is set to `italian` we can still
// print in a different language by passing a non nil locale
// to the function.
let formattedString = date.toFormat("MMM dd yyyy", locale: Locales.english) // "Jan 15 2015"
```
[^ Top](#index)

<a name="isoformatted"/>

## 5.1 - ISO8601 Formatted String
SwiftDate allows you to print date instances using a configurable ISO8601 formatter which is also compatible with older versions of iOS where Apple's own class is not available.

To use the ISO formatter call `.toISO()` function

`func toISO(_ options: ISOFormatter.Options?) -> String`

takes one optional argument:

- `options | ISOFormatter.Options`: allows to customize the format of the output string by defining which kind of date must be into the final string (if you omit it `withInternetDateTime` is used).

`ISOFormatter.Options` defines an `OptionSet` with the following values:

- `withYear`: The date representation includes the year. The format for year is inferred based on the other specified options. If `withWeekOfYear` is specified, `YYYY` is used. Otherwise, `yyyy` is used.
- `withMonth`: The date representation includes the month. The format for month is `MM`.
- `withWeekOfYear`: The date representation includes the week of the year. The format for week of year is `ww`, including the `W` prefix.
- `withDay`:  The date representation includes the day. The format for day is inferred based on provided options: If `withMonth` is specified, `dd` is used. If `withWeekOfYear` is specified, `ee` is used. Otherwise, `DDD` is used.
- `withTime`: The date representation includes the time. The format for time is `HH:mm:ss`.
- `withTimeZone`: The date representation includes the timezone. The format for timezone is `ZZZZZ`.
- `withSpaceBetweenDateAndTime`: The date representation uses a space (` `) instead of `T` between the date and time.
- `withDashSeparatorInDate`: The date representation uses the dash separator (`-`) in the date.
- `withFullDate`: The date representation uses the colon separator (`:`) in the time.
- `withFullTime`: The date representation includes the hour, minute, and second.
- `withInternetDateTime`: The format used for internet date times, according to the RFC 3339 standard. Equivalent to specifying `withFullDate`, `withFullTime`, `withDashSeparatorInDate`,
 `withColonSeparatorInTime`, and `withColonSeparatorInTimeZone`.
- `withInternetDateTimeExtended`: The format used for internet date times; it's similar to `.withInternetDateTime` but include milliseconds (`yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSZZZZZ`).
- `withoutTZSeparators`: Print timezone of the date without time separator (`+0200` instead of `+02:00`). You can combine it with the following other options: `withInternetDateTimeExtended`, `withInternetDateTime` and when `withTimeZone == false && withTimeZone == true`

Examples:

```swift
let regionRome = Region(calendar: Calendars.gregorian, zone: Zones.europeRome, locale: Locales.italian)
let date = DateInRegion("2017-07-22 00:00:00", format: "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss", region: regionRome)!

// ISO Formatting
let _ = date.toISO() // "2017-07-22T00:00:00+02:00"
let _ = date.toISO([.withFullDate]) // "2017-07-22"
let _ = date.toISO([.withFullDate, .withFullTime, .withDashSeparatorInDate, .withSpaceBetweenDateAndTime]) // "2017-07-22 00:00:00+02:00"
```
[^ Top](#index)

<a name="dotnet"/>

## 5.2 - .NET Formatted String
CSOM DateTime (aka .NET DateTime) is a format defined by Microsoft as the number of 100-nanosecond intervals that have elapsed since 12:00 A.M., January 1, 0001 ([learn more on MSDN documentation page](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/dd948679)).

Use the `.toDotNET()` function to create a string from a date instance.

`func toDotNET() -> String`

```swift
let date = "2017-06-20T14:49:19+02:00".toISODate()!
let dotNetString = date.toDotNET() // "/Date(1497962959000+0200)/"
```

[^ Top](#index)

<a name="rss"/>

## 5.3 - RSS/AltRSS Formatted String
RSS and AltRSS formatted string can be generated from an instance of `Date` or `DateInRegion` using the `.toRSS()` function.

`func toRSS(alt: Bool) -> String`

takes only one argument:

- `alt | Bool`: true to print the AltRSS variant, false to print the default RSS formatted string.

Examples:

```swift
let date = ... // 2017-06-20T14:49:19+02:00
let rssString = date.toRSS(alt: false) // "Tue, 20 Jun 2017 14:49:19 +0200"
let altRSSString = date.toRSS(alt: true) // "20 Jun 2017 14:49:19 +0200"
```

[^ Top](#index)

<a name="sql"/>

## 5.4 - SQL Formatted String
To print a SQL formatted string from a date instance you need to use the `.toSQL()` function.

`func toSQL() -> String`

Examples:

```swift
let date = ... // 2015-11-19T22:20:40+01:00
let sqlString = date.toSQL() // "2015-11-19T22:20:40.000+01"
```

[^ Top](#index)

<a name="colloquial"/>

## 5.5 - Relative/Colloquial Formatted String
Colloquial format allows you to produce a human friendly string as result of the difference between a date and a a reference date (typically now).
Examples of colloquial formatted strings are `3 mins ago`, `2 days ago` or `just now`.

SwiftDate supports over 140+ languages to produce colloquial formatted strings; the entire engine behind the library is fully customizable so, if you need, you can override default strings and produce your own variants.

To print a colloquial variant of a string just call `.toRelative()` function from a `Date` or `DateInRegion` instance.

`func toRelative(since: DateInRegion?, style: RelativeFormatter.Style?, locale: LocaleConvertible?) -> String`

It takes three arguments:

- `since | DateInRegion?`: reference date, if you omit it current date is set as reference date.
- `style | RelativeFormatter.Style?`: the style used to print the formatted value. There are 3 styles: `RelativeFormatter.defaultStyle()`, `RelativeFormatter.timeStyle()` and `RelativeFormstter.twitterStyle()`.
- `locale | LocaleConvertible?`: pass non nil value to override the receiver region's `locale` and print the representation using passed locale.

Examples:

```swift
let ago5Mins = DateInRegion() - 5.minutes
let _ = ago5Mins.toRelative(style: RelativeFormatter.defaultStyle(), locale: Locales.italian) // "5 minuti fa"

let justNow2 = DateInRegion() - 2.hours
let _ = justNow2.toRelative(style: RelativeFormatter.twitterStyle(), locale: Locales.italian) // "2h fa"

let justNow = DateInRegion() - 10.seconds
let _ = justNow.toRelative(style: RelativeFormatter.twitterStyle(), locale: Locales.italian) // "ora"
```

You can fully customize the language and results.
See the guide ["Customize Colloquial Formatter"](Customize_ColloquialFormatter.md).

[^ Top](#index)

<a name="mixeddatetime"/>

## 5.6 - Mixed Date/Time Style

If you to format date with different date/time styles you can use the `. dateTimeMixed` formatter option where you can choose a format both for date and time (`DateFormatter.Style`).

```swify
// Just print full date with no time
let formatted = date.toString(.dateTimeMixed(dateStyle: .full, timeStyle: .none))
```

[^ Top](#index)

[**Next Chapter**: Time Interval Formatting](#6.TimeInterval_Formatting.md)
